# Tools of the Trade

Modern developers use a wide array of tools, some that allow them to complete their tasks and some that add convenience and efficiency, and then some do both. One of the most fundamental tools in a developer's arsenal is a text editor. A text editor is exactly that - a program used to edit text. These come in all shapes and sizes. Some will be very bare bones and only allow the minimum. Others can be quite robust and be packed with lots of helpful and convenient features. There are essentially three types of text editors available to developers:
  1. General text editors such as notepad, Microsoft Word, Apple Pages and Google Docs. These can be used for basic coding, but they offer no support.
  2. Coding-specific text editors such as Atom, Notepad ++, Sublime Text and VSCode. These are robust text editing applications that have features ssuch as code completion, syntax highlighting and extesions that can be added for more functionality. These are a go to for any developer.
  3. IDE or Integrated Development Environments. These are more of a suite of various coding softewares all wrapped up in one convenient package. They will often include a text editor, a debugger, a code compiler and other handy features useful to a busy developer. 
  
But text editors and IDE's arent the only tools used by developers. Another very useful tool is called terminal, or command line. Terminal allows you to send simple text commands to control just about everything on your computer, from moving and making files to installing programs. This can still all be done from the GUI, or graphical user interface, though using terminal is often much more efficient than hunting through folder after folder just looking for the right file. Terminal commands are typically pretty short, but can get quite complicated for new users. For example, typign `pwd`, short for print working directory, on the command line will show you exactly where you are in the computer, making it very difficult to get lost. You can make directories, or folders, simply by typing `mkdir`, short for make directory, without the need to go into a folder, right click to make new folder etc. Terminal I a fast, efficient way to navigate your computer and complete tasks with minimal effort.
